# Networking Services and System Updates

## Networking

### Internet Access to VM

1. Open *Virtualbox Manager*
2. Select the machine you cannot get internet on in the left pane
3. Click the *Settings* button in the top menu
4. Click *Network* in the left pane in the settings window
5. Switched to *Bridged Adaptor* in the Attached to drop-down menu
6. Hit *OK* to save your changes
7. Start your VM

### Network Components

**IP**: The unique address assigned to each device on a network.

**Subnet Mask**: Defines the network and host portions of an IP address.

**Gateway**: The device that routes traffic from a local network to other networks.

**Static vs. DHCP**: Static IPs are manually set and fixed, while DHCP assigns IPs dynamically.

**Interface**: The network connection point of a device (e.g., Ethernet, Wi-Fi).

**Interface MAC**: The unique hardware address of a network interface.

### Network Files and Commands


**Interface Detection**: Identifying network interfaces on a system.

**Assigning an IP address**: Setting an IP address for a network interface.

**Interface configuration files**: Files that store network interface settings.

- */etc/nsswitch.conf:* Configures name service switch functionality.

- */etc/hostname:* Stores the system's hostname.

- ~~*/etc/sysconfig/network:*~~ Contains network configuration settings.

	/etc/network ---> ==Debian==
	/etc/netplan ---> ==Debian==

- ~~*/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-nic:*~~ Configuration file for network interfaces.

	 /etc/netplan ---> ==Debian==

- */etc/resolv.conf:* Configures DNS servers for name resolution.

**Networking Commands**

*ping:* Tests connectivity to another host.

```
ping 10.10.10.58
```

*ifconfig:* Displays or configures network interfaces.

```
ifconfig
```

*ifup or ifdown:* Brings a network interface up or down.

```
sudo apt install ifupdown
```

```
ifup <interface_name>
```

```
ifdown <interface_name>
```

*netstat:* Displays network connections and statistics.

```
netstat -rnv
```
 
*tcpdump:* Captures and analyzes network packets.

```
tcp dump -i <interface_name>
```

```
sudo tcpdump -i enp3s0
```

### NIC Information ethtool

NIC = Network Interface Card

```
ethtool enp3s0 
```

### NIC Bonding





